
.TH "hledger_timeclock" "5" "May 2016" "hledger 0.28" "hledger User Manuals"



.SH NAME
.PP
Timeclock \- the time logging format of timeclock.el, as read by hledger
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
hledger can read timeclock files.
As with Ledger, these are (a subset of) timeclock.el\[aq]s format,
containing clock\-in and clock\-out entries as in the example below.
The date is a simple date.
The time format is HH:MM[:SS][+\-ZZZZ].
Seconds and timezone are optional.
The timezone, if present, must be four digits and is ignored (currently
the time is always interpreted as a local time).
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
i\ 2015/03/30\ 09:00:00\ some:account\ name\ \ optional\ description\ after\ two\ spaces
o\ 2015/03/30\ 09:20:00
i\ 2015/03/31\ 22:21:45\ another\ account
o\ 2015/04/01\ 02:00:34
\f[]
.fi
.PP
hledger treats each clock\-in/clock\-out pair as a transaction posting
some number of hours to an account.
Or if the session spans more than one day, it is split into several
transactions, one for each day.
For the above time log, \f[C]hledger\ print\f[] generates these journal
entries:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ \-f\ t.timeclock\ print
2015/03/30\ *\ optional\ description\ after\ two\ spaces
\ \ \ \ (some:account\ name)\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0.33h

2015/03/31\ *\ 22:21\-23:59
\ \ \ \ (another\ account)\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 1.64h

2015/04/01\ *\ 00:00\-02:00
\ \ \ \ (another\ account)\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 2.01h
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Here is a sample.timeclock to download and some queries to try:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ \-f\ sample.timeclock\ balance\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ current\ time\ balances
$\ hledger\ \-f\ sample.timeclock\ register\ \-p\ 2009/3\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ sessions\ in\ march\ 2009
$\ hledger\ \-f\ sample.timeclock\ register\ \-p\ weekly\ \-\-depth\ 1\ \-\-empty\ \ #\ time\ summary\ by\ week
\f[]
.fi
.PP
To generate time logs, ie to clock in and clock out, you could:
.IP \[bu] 2
use emacs and the built\-in timeclock.el, or the extended
timeclock\-x.el and perhaps the extras in ledgerutils.el
.IP \[bu] 2
at the command line, use these bash aliases:
.RS 2
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
alias\ ti="echo\ i\ `date\ \[aq]+%Y\-%m\-%d\ %H:%M:%S\[aq]`\ \\$*\ >>$TIMELOG"
alias\ to="echo\ o\ `date\ \[aq]+%Y\-%m\-%d\ %H:%M:%S\[aq]`\ >>$TIMELOG"
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
or use the old \f[C]ti\f[] and \f[C]to\f[] scripts in the ledger 2.x
repository.
These rely on a "timeclock" executable which I think is just the ledger
2 executable renamed.


.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at http://bugs.hledger.org
(or on the #hledger IRC channel or hledger mail list)

.SH AUTHORS
Simon Michael <simon@joyful.com> and contributors

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Simon Michael.
.br
Released under GNU GPL v3 or later.

.SH SEE ALSO
hledger(1), hledger\-ui(1), hledger\-web(1), hledger\-api(1),
hledger_csv(5), hledger_journal(5), hledger_timeclock(5), hledger_timedot(5),
ledger(1)

http://hledger.org
