
.TH "hledger\-ui" "1" "May 2016" "hledger\-ui 0.28dev" "hledger User Manuals"



.SH NAME
.PP
hledger\-ui \- curses\-style interface for the hledger accounting tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[C]hledger\-ui\ [OPTIONS]\ [QUERYARGS]\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[C]hledger\ ui\ \-\-\ [OPTIONS]\ [QUERYARGS]\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
hledger is a cross\-platform program for tracking money, time, or any
other commodity, using double\-entry accounting and a simple, editable
file format.
hledger is inspired by and largely compatible with ledger(1).
.PP
hledger\-ui is hledger\[aq]s curses\-style interface, providing an
efficient full\-window text UI for viewing accounts and transactions,
and some limited data entry capability.
It is easier than hledger\[aq]s command\-line interface, and sometimes
quicker and more convenient than the web interface.
.PP
Like hledger, it reads data from one or more files in hledger journal,
timeclock, timedot, or CSV format specified with \f[C]\-f\f[], or
\f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[], or \f[C]$HOME/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows,
perhaps \f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
For more about this see hledger(1), hledger_journal(5) etc.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Note: if invoking hledger\-ui as a hledger subcommand, write
\f[C]\-\-\f[] before options as shown above.
.PP
Any QUERYARGS are interpreted as a hledger search query which filters
the data.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-flat\f[]
show full account names, unindented
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-register=ACCTREGEX\f[]
start in the (first) matched account\[aq]s register screen
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-theme=default|terminal|greenterm\f[]
use this custom display theme
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-V\ \-\-value\f[]
show amounts as their current market value in their default valuation
commodity (accounts screen only)
.RS
.RE
.PP
hledger general options:
.TP
.B \f[C]\-h\f[]
show general usage (or after COMMAND, the command\[aq]s usage)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-help\f[]
show the current program\[aq]s manual as plain text (or after an add\-on
COMMAND, the add\-on\[aq]s manual)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-man\f[]
show the current program\[aq]s manual with man
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-info\f[]
show the current program\[aq]s manual with info
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-version\f[]
show version
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-debug[=N]\f[]
show debug output (levels 1\-9, default: 1)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-f\ FILE\ \-\-file=FILE\f[]
use a different input file.
For stdin, use \-
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-rules\-file=RULESFILE\f[]
Conversion rules file to use when reading CSV (default: FILE.rules)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-alias=OLD=NEW\f[]
display accounts named OLD as NEW
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-I\ \-\-ignore\-assertions\f[]
ignore any failing balance assertions in the journal
.RS
.RE
.PP
hledger reporting options:
.TP
.B \f[C]\-b\ \-\-begin=DATE\f[]
include postings/txns on or after this date
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-e\ \-\-end=DATE\f[]
include postings/txns before this date
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-D\ \-\-daily\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by day
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-W\ \-\-weekly\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by week
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-M\ \-\-monthly\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by month
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-Q\ \-\-quarterly\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by quarter
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-Y\ \-\-yearly\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by year
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-p\ \-\-period=PERIODEXP\f[]
set start date, end date, and/or reporting interval all at once
(overrides the flags above)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-date2\f[]
show, and match with \-b/\-e/\-p/date:, secondary dates instead
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-C\ \-\-cleared\f[]
include only cleared postings/txns
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-pending\f[]
include only pending postings/txns
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-U\ \-\-uncleared\f[]
include only uncleared (and pending) postings/txns
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-R\ \-\-real\f[]
include only non\-virtual postings
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-depth=N\f[]
hide accounts/postings deeper than N
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-E\ \-\-empty\f[]
show items with zero amount, normally hidden
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-B\ \-\-cost\f[]
show amounts in their cost price\[aq]s commodity
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-pivot\ TAG\f[]
will transform the journal before any other processing by replacing the
account name of every posting having the tag TAG with content VALUE by
the account name "TAG:VALUE".
.RS
.RE
The TAG will only match if it is a full\-length match.
The pivot will only happen if the TAG is on a posting, not if it is on
the transaction.
If the tag value is a multi:level:account:name the new account name will
be "TAG:multi:level:account:name".
.RS
.RE
.SH KEYS
.PP
\f[C]?\f[] shows a help dialog listing all keys.
(Some but not all of these also appear in the quick help at the bottom
of each screen.) Press \f[C]?\f[] again (or \f[C]ESCAPE\f[], or
\f[C]LEFT\f[]) to close it.
.PP
The cursor keys navigate: \f[C]right\f[] (or \f[C]enter\f[]) goes
deeper, \f[C]left\f[] returns to the previous screen,
\f[C]up\f[]/\f[C]down\f[]/\f[C]page\ up\f[]/\f[C]page\ down\f[]/\f[C]home\f[]/\f[C]end\f[]
move up and down through lists.
Vi\-style \f[C]h\f[]/\f[C]j\f[]/\f[C]k\f[]/\f[C]l\f[] movement keys are
also supported.
(A tip: movement speed is limited by your keyboard repeat rate, to move
faster you may want to adjust that.
On a mac, the Karabiner app is one way to do that.)
.PP
On most screens, \f[C]/\f[] lets you set or change the filter query,
which limits the data shown (this filter is in addition to the quick
filters described below).
While editing the query you can use typical command\-line edit keys
(CTRL\-a/e/d/k, cursor keys etc.), and \f[C]ENTER\f[]to set the new
filter or \f[C]ESCAPE\f[]to cancel.
.PP
\f[C]d\f[] and \f[C]u\f[] cycle downward and upward through standard
report periods \- year, quarter, month, week, day.
When a standard report period is selected, \f[C]n\f[] and \f[C]p\f[]
step it to the next or previous period.
\f[C]Shift\-down/up/right/left\f[] can also be used for this.
\f[C]t\f[] sets the report period to today.
For non\-standard periods, you can use \f[C]/\f[] to set a
\f[C]date:\f[] query.
.PP
\f[C]BACKSPACE\f[] or \f[C]DELETE\f[] clears any filters in effect.
.PP
\f[C]ESCAPE\f[] removes any filters currently in effect, and jumps to
the top screen.
Or, it cancels a minibuffer edit or help dialog if one is active.
.PP
\f[C]g\f[] reloads from the data file(s) and updates the current screen
and any previous screens.
(With large files, there can be a noticeable pause.)
.PP
\f[C]I\f[] toggles balance assertion checking.
Disabling balance assertions temporarily can be useful for
troubleshooting.
.PP
\f[C]a\f[] runs command\-line hledger\[aq]s add command, and reloads the
updated file.
This allows some basic data entry.
.PP
\f[C]E\f[] runs $HLEDGER_UI_EDITOR, or $EDITOR, or a default
(\f[C]emacsclient\ \-a\ ""\ \-nw\f[]) on the journal file.
With some editors (emacs, vi), the cursor will be positioned at the
current transaction when invoked from the register and transaction
screens, and at the error location (if possible) when invoked from the
error screen.
.PP
\f[C]q\f[] quits the application.
.PP
Additional screen\-specific keys are described below.
.SH SCREENS
.SS Accounts screen
.PP
This is normally the first screen displayed.
It lists accounts and their balances, like hledger\[aq]s balance
command.
By default, it shows all accounts and their latest ending balances
(including the balances of subaccounts).
if you specify a query on the command line, it shows just the matched
accounts and the balances from matched transactions.
.PP
Account names are normally indented to show the hierarchy (tree mode).
To see less detail, set a depth limit by pressing a number key,
\f[C]1\f[] to \f[C]9\f[].
\f[C]0\f[] shows even less detail, collapsing all accounts to a single
total.
\f[C]\-\f[] and \f[C]+\f[] (or \f[C]=\f[]) decrease and increase the
depth limit.
To remove the depth limit, set it higher than the maximum account depth,
or press \f[C]ESCAPE\f[].
.PP
\f[C]F\f[] toggles flat mode on and off.
In flat mode, accounts are listed without indentation, and show their
subaccount\-excluding balances, except for accounts which have been
clipped by a depth limit, which show their inclusive balances (as with
hledger\[aq]s balance command).
.PP
\f[C]C\f[] toggles cleared mode, in which uncleared transactions and
postings are not shown.
\f[C]U\f[] toggles uncleared mode, in which only uncleared
transactions/postings are shown.
.PP
\f[C]R\f[] toggles real mode, in which virtual postings are ignored.
.PP
\f[C]Z\f[] toggles nonzero mode, in which only accounts with nonzero
balances are shown (hledger\-ui shows zero items by default, unlike
command\-line hledger).
.PP
Press \f[C]right\f[] or \f[C]enter\f[] to view an account\[aq]s
transactions register.
.SS Register screen
.PP
This screen shows the transactions affecting a particular account, like
a check register.
Each line represents one transaction and shows:
.IP \[bu] 2
the other account(s) involved, in abbreviated form.
(If there are both real and virtual postings, it shows only the accounts
affected by real postings.)
.IP \[bu] 2
the overall change to the current account\[aq]s balance; positive for an
inflow to this account, negative for an outflow.
.IP \[bu] 2
the current account\[aq]s historic balance (if no query other than a
date limit is in effect) or the running total starting from zero
(otherwise), after the transaction.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
Eg, these will show historic balances:
.RS 2
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\-ui
$\ hledger\-ui\ \-\-begin\ \[aq]this\ month\[aq]
$\ hledger\-ui\ \-\-register\ checking\ date:2015/10
\f[]
.fi
.PP
while these will show a running total, since the queries are not just
date limits:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\-ui\ checking
$\ hledger\-ui\ \-\-begin\ \[aq]this\ month\[aq]\ desc:market
$\ hledger\-ui\ \-\-register\ checking\ \-\-cleared
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
The register screen normally shows transactions in the current account
and any of its subaccounts (inclusive mode).
If it was entered from the accounts screen in flat mode, where the
selected account was not depth\-clipped and therefore was showing its
subaccount\-excluding balance, the register too will omit the
transactions of subaccounts (exclusive mode).
This means the register always shows the transactions responsible for
the balance being displayed on the accounts screen.
.PP
\f[C]C\f[] toggles cleared mode, in which uncleared transactions and
postings are not shown.
\f[C]U\f[] toggles uncleared mode, in which only uncleared
transactions/postings are shown.
.PP
\f[C]R\f[] toggles real mode, in which virtual postings are ignored.
.PP
\f[C]Z\f[] toggles nonzero mode, in which only transactions posting a
nonzero change are shown (hledger\-ui shows zero items by default,
unlike command\-line hledger).
.PP
Press \f[C]right\f[] (or \f[C]enter\f[]) to view the selected
transaction in detail.
.SS Transaction screen
.PP
This screen shows a single transaction, as a general journal entry,
similar to hledger\[aq]s print command and journal format
(hledger_journal(5)).
.PP
The transaction\[aq]s date(s) and any cleared flag, transaction code,
description, comments, along with all of its account postings are shown.
Simple transactions have two postings, but there can be more (or in
certain cases, fewer).
.PP
\f[C]up\f[] and \f[C]down\f[] will step through all transactions listed
in the previous account register screen.
In the title bar, the numbers in parentheses show your position within
that account register.
They will vary depending on which account register you came from
(remember most transactions appear in multiple account registers).
The #N number preceding them is the transaction\[aq]s position within
the complete unfiltered journal, which is a more stable id (at least
until the next reload).
.SS Error screen
.PP
This screen will appear if there is a problem, such as a parse error,
when you press g to reload.
Once you have fixed the problem, press g again to reload and resume
normal operation.
(Or, you can press escape to cancel the reload attempt.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\f[B]COLUMNS\f[] The screen width to use.
Default: the full terminal width.
.PP
\f[B]LEDGER_FILE\f[] The journal file path when not specified with
\f[C]\-f\f[].
Default: \f[C]~/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows, perhaps
\f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
.SH FILES
.PP
Reads data from one or more files in hledger journal, timeclock,
timedot, or CSV format specified with \f[C]\-f\f[], or
\f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[], or \f[C]$HOME/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows,
perhaps \f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
.SH BUGS
.PP
The need to precede options with \f[C]\-\-\f[] when invoked from hledger
is awkward.
.PP
\f[C]\-f\-\f[] doesn\[aq]t work (hledger\-ui can\[aq]t read from stdin).
.PP
\f[C]\-V\f[] affects only the accounts screen.
.PP
When you press \f[C]g\f[], the current and all previous screens are
regenerated, which may cause a noticeable pause.
Also there is no visual indication that this is in progress.
.PP
The register screen\[aq]s switching between historic balance and running
total based on query arguments may be confusing, and there is no column
heading to indicate which is being displayed.


.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at http://bugs.hledger.org
(or on the #hledger IRC channel or hledger mail list)

.SH AUTHORS
Simon Michael <simon@joyful.com> and contributors

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Simon Michael.
.br
Released under GNU GPL v3 or later.

.SH SEE ALSO
hledger(1), hledger\-ui(1), hledger\-web(1), hledger\-api(1),
hledger_csv(5), hledger_journal(5), hledger_timeclock(5), hledger_timedot(5),
ledger(1)

http://hledger.org
