
.TH "hledger\-api" "1" "May 2016" "hledger\-api 0.28" "hledger User Manuals"



.SH NAME
.PP
hledger\-api \- web API server for the hledger accounting tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[C]hledger\-api\ [OPTIONS]\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[C]hledger\-api\ \-\-swagger\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[C]hledger\ api\ \-\-\ [OPTIONS]\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
hledger is a cross\-platform program for tracking money, time, or any
other commodity, using double\-entry accounting and a simple, editable
file format.
hledger is inspired by and largely compatible with ledger(1).
.PP
hledger\-api is a simple web API server, intended to support
client\-side web apps operating on hledger data.
It comes with a series of simple client\-side app examples, which drive
it\[aq]s evolution.
.PP
Like hledger, it reads data from one or more files in hledger journal,
timeclock, timedot, or CSV format specified with \f[C]\-f\f[], or
\f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[], or \f[C]$HOME/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows,
perhaps \f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
For more about this see hledger(1), hledger_journal(5) etc.
.PP
The server listens on port 8001, or another specified with
\f[C]\-p\ PORT\f[].
Note there is no built\-in access control, so you will need to hide
hledger\-api behind an authenticating proxy if you want to restrict
access.
.PP
If invoked as \f[C]hledger\-api\ \-\-swagger\f[], instead of starting a
server the API docs will be printed in Swagger 2.0 format.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Note: if invoking hledger\-api as a hledger subcommand, write
\f[C]\-\-\f[] before options as shown above.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-d\ \-\-static\-dir=DIR\f[]
serve files from a different directory (default: \f[C]\&.\f[])
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-p\ \-\-port=PORT\f[]
use a different TCP port (default: 8001)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-swagger\f[]
print API docs in Swagger 2.0 format, and exit
.RS
.RE
.PP
hledger general options:
.TP
.B \f[C]\-h\f[]
show general usage (or after COMMAND, the command\[aq]s usage)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-help\f[]
show the current program\[aq]s manual as plain text (or after an add\-on
COMMAND, the add\-on\[aq]s manual)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-man\f[]
show the current program\[aq]s manual with man
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-info\f[]
show the current program\[aq]s manual with info
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-version\f[]
show version
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-debug[=N]\f[]
show debug output (levels 1\-9, default: 1)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-f\ FILE\ \-\-file=FILE\f[]
use a different input file.
For stdin, use \-
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-rules\-file=RULESFILE\f[]
Conversion rules file to use when reading CSV (default: FILE.rules)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-alias=OLD=NEW\f[]
display accounts named OLD as NEW
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-I\ \-\-ignore\-assertions\f[]
ignore any failing balance assertions in the journal
.RS
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\f[B]LEDGER_FILE\f[] The journal file path when not specified with
\f[C]\-f\f[].
Default: \f[C]~/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows, perhaps
\f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
.SH FILES
.PP
Reads data from one or more files in hledger journal, timeclock,
timedot, or CSV format specified with \f[C]\-f\f[], or
\f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[], or \f[C]$HOME/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows,
perhaps \f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
.SH BUGS
.PP
The need to precede options with \f[C]\-\-\f[] when invoked from hledger
is awkward.


.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at http://bugs.hledger.org
(or on the #hledger IRC channel or hledger mail list)

.SH AUTHORS
Simon Michael <simon@joyful.com> and contributors

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Simon Michael.
.br
Released under GNU GPL v3 or later.

.SH SEE ALSO
hledger(1), hledger\-ui(1), hledger\-web(1), hledger\-api(1),
hledger_csv(5), hledger_journal(5), hledger_timeclock(5), hledger_timedot(5),
ledger(1)

http://hledger.org
