.\"t

.TH "hledger" "1" "July 2017" "hledger 1.3.99" "hledger User Manuals"



.SH NAME
.PP
hledger \- a command\-line accounting tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[C]hledger\ [\-f\ FILE]\ COMMAND\ [OPTIONS]\ [ARGS]\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[C]hledger\ [\-f\ FILE]\ ADDONCMD\ \-\-\ [OPTIONS]\ [ARGS]\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[C]hledger\f[]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
hledger is a cross\-platform program for tracking money, time, or any
other commodity, using double\-entry accounting and a simple, editable
file format.
hledger is inspired by and largely compatible with ledger(1).
.PD 0
.P
.PD
Tested on unix, mac, windows, hledger aims to be a reliable, practical
tool for daily use.
.PP
This is hledger's command\-line interface (there are also curses and web
interfaces).
Its basic function is to read a plain text file describing financial
transactions (in accounting terms, a general journal) and print useful
reports on standard output, or export them as CSV.
hledger can also read some other file formats such as CSV files,
translating them to journal format.
Additionally, hledger lists other hledger\-* executables found in the
user's $PATH and can invoke them as subcommands.
.PP
hledger reads data from one or more files in hledger journal, timeclock,
timedot, or CSV format specified with \f[C]\-f\f[], or
\f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[], or \f[C]$HOME/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows,
perhaps \f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
If using \f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[], note this must be a real environment
variable, not a shell variable.
You can specify standard input with \f[C]\-f\-\f[].
.PP
Transactions are dated movements of money between two (or more) named
accounts, and are recorded with journal entries like this:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
2015/10/16\ bought\ food
\ expenses:food\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $10
\ assets:cash
\f[]
.fi
.PP
For more about this format, see hledger_journal(5).
.PP
Most users use a text editor to edit the journal, usually with an editor
mode such as ledger\-mode for added convenience.
hledger's interactive add command is another way to record new
transactions.
hledger never changes existing transactions.
.PP
To get started, you can either save some entries like the above in
\f[C]~/.hledger.journal\f[], or run \f[C]hledger\ add\f[] and follow the
prompts.
Then try some commands like \f[C]hledger\ print\f[] or
\f[C]hledger\ balance\f[].
Run \f[C]hledger\f[] with no arguments for a list of commands.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Two simple transactions in hledger journal format:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
2015/9/30\ gift\ received
\ \ assets:cash\ \ \ $20
\ \ income:gifts

2015/10/16\ farmers\ market
\ \ expenses:food\ \ \ \ $10
\ \ assets:cash
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Some basic reports:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ print
2015/09/30\ gift\ received
\ \ \ \ assets:cash\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $20
\ \ \ \ income:gifts\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-20

2015/10/16\ farmers\ market
\ \ \ \ expenses:food\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $10
\ \ \ \ assets:cash\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-10
\f[]
.fi
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ accounts\ \-\-tree
assets
\ \ cash
expenses
\ \ food
income
\ \ gifts
\f[]
.fi
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $10\ \ assets:cash
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $10\ \ expenses:food
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-20\ \ income:gifts
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ register\ cash
2015/09/30\ gift\ received\ \ \ assets:cash\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $20\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $20
2015/10/16\ farmers\ market\ \ assets:cash\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-10\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $10
\f[]
.fi
.PP
More commands:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ show\ available\ commands
$\ hledger\ add\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ add\ more\ transactions\ to\ the\ journal\ file
$\ hledger\ balance\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ all\ accounts\ with\ aggregated\ balances
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-\-help\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ show\ detailed\ help\ for\ balance\ command
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-\-depth\ 1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ only\ top\-level\ accounts
$\ hledger\ register\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ show\ account\ postings,\ with\ running\ total
$\ hledger\ reg\ income\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ show\ postings\ to/from\ income\ accounts
$\ hledger\ reg\ \[aq]assets:some\ bank:checking\[aq]\ #\ show\ postings\ to/from\ this\ checking\ account
$\ hledger\ print\ desc:shop\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ show\ transactions\ with\ shop\ in\ the\ description
$\ hledger\ activity\ \-W\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ show\ transaction\ counts\ per\ week\ as\ a\ bar\ chart
\f[]
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General options
.PP
To see general usage help, including general options which are supported
by most hledger commands, run \f[C]hledger\ \-h\f[].
(Note \-h and \-\-help are different, like git.)
.PP
General help options:
.TP
.B \f[C]\-h\ \-\-help\f[]
show general usage (or after COMMAND, command usage)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-version\f[]
show version
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-debug[=N]\f[]
show debug output (levels 1\-9, default: 1)
.RS
.RE
.PP
General input options:
.TP
.B \f[C]\-f\ FILE\ \-\-file=FILE\f[]
use a different input file.
For stdin, use \- (default: \f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[] or
\f[C]$HOME/.hledger.journal\f[])
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-rules\-file=RULESFILE\f[]
Conversion rules file to use when reading CSV (default: FILE.rules)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-alias=OLD=NEW\f[]
rename accounts named OLD to NEW
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-anon\f[]
anonymize accounts and payees
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-pivot\ TAGNAME\f[]
use some other field/tag for account names
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-I\ \-\-ignore\-assertions\f[]
ignore any failing balance assertions
.RS
.RE
.PP
General reporting options:
.TP
.B \f[C]\-b\ \-\-begin=DATE\f[]
include postings/txns on or after this date
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-e\ \-\-end=DATE\f[]
include postings/txns before this date
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-D\ \-\-daily\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by day
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-W\ \-\-weekly\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by week
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-M\ \-\-monthly\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by month
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-Q\ \-\-quarterly\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by quarter
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-Y\ \-\-yearly\f[]
multiperiod/multicolumn report by year
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-p\ \-\-period=PERIODEXP\f[]
set start date, end date, and/or reporting interval all at once
(overrides the flags above)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-date2\f[]
match the secondary date instead (see command help for other effects)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-U\ \-\-unmarked\f[]
include only unmarked postings/txns (can combine with \-P or \-C)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-P\ \-\-pending\f[]
include only pending postings/txns
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-C\ \-\-cleared\f[]
include only cleared postings/txns
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-R\ \-\-real\f[]
include only non\-virtual postings
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-depth=N\f[]
hide accounts/postings deeper than N
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-E\ \-\-empty\f[]
show items with zero amount, normally hidden
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-B\ \-\-cost\f[]
convert amounts to their cost at transaction time (using the transaction
price, if any)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-V\ \-\-value\f[]
convert amounts to their market value on the report end date (using the
most recent applicable market price, if any)
.RS
.RE
.PP
Note when multiple similar reporting options are provided, the last one
takes precedence.
Eg \f[C]\-p\ feb\ \-p\ mar\f[] is equivalent to \f[C]\-p\ mar\f[].
.PP
Some of these can also be written as queries.
.SS Command options
.PP
To see options for a particular command, including command\-specific
options, run: \f[C]hledger\ COMMAND\ \-h\f[].
.PP
Command\-specific options must be written after the command name, eg:
\f[C]hledger\ print\ \-x\f[].
.PP
Additionally, if the command is an addon, you may need to put its
options after a double\-hyphen, eg:
\f[C]hledger\ ui\ \-\-\ \-\-watch\f[].
Or, you can run the addon executable directly:
\f[C]hledger\-ui\ \-\-watch\f[].
.SS Command arguments
.PP
Most hledger commands accept arguments after the command name, which are
often a query, filtering the data in some way.
.SS Special characters
.PP
Option and argument values which contain problematic characters should
be escaped with double quotes, backslashes, or (best) single quotes.
Problematic characters means spaces, and also characters which are
significant to your command shell, such as less\-than/greater\-than.
Eg:
\f[C]hledger\ register\ \-p\ \[aq]last\ year\[aq]\ "accounts\ receivable\ (receivable|payable)"\ amt:\\>100\f[].
.PP
Characters which are significant both to the shell and in regular
expressions sometimes need to be double\-escaped.
These include parentheses, the pipe symbol and the dollar sign.
Eg, to match the dollar symbol, bash users should do:
\f[C]hledger\ balance\ cur:\[aq]\\$\[aq]\f[] or
\f[C]hledger\ balance\ cur:\\\\$\f[].
.PP
There\[aq]s more..
options and arguments get de\-escaped when hledger is passing them to an
addon executable.
In this case you might need \f[I]triple\f[]\-escaping.
Eg: \f[C]hledger\ ui\ cur:\[aq]\\\\$\[aq]\f[] or
\f[C]hledger\ ui\ cur:\\\\\\\\$\f[].
.PP
If in doubt, keep things simple:
.IP \[bu] 2
run add\-on executables directly
.IP \[bu] 2
write options after the command
.IP \[bu] 2
enclose problematic args in single quotes
.IP \[bu] 2
if needed, also add a backslash to escape regexp metacharacters
.PP
If you\[aq]re really stumped, add \f[C]\-\-debug=2\f[] to troubleshoot.
.SS Input files
.PP
hledger reads transactions from a data file (and the add command writes
to it).
By default this file is \f[C]$HOME/.hledger.journal\f[] (or on Windows,
something like \f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
You can override this with the \f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[] environment
variable:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ setenv\ LEDGER_FILE\ ~/finance/2016.journal
$\ hledger\ stats
\f[]
.fi
.PP
or with the \f[C]\-f/\-\-file\f[] option:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ \-f\ /some/file\ stats
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The file name \f[C]\-\f[] (hyphen) means standard input:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ cat\ some.journal\ |\ hledger\ \-f\-
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Usually the data file is in hledger\[aq]s journal format, but it can
also be one of several other formats, listed below.
hledger detects the format automatically based on the file extension, or
if that is not recognised, by trying each built\-in "reader" in turn:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
lw(10.7n) lw(33.2n) lw(26.1n).
T{
Reader:
T}@T{
Reads:
T}@T{
Used for file extensions:
T}
_
T{
\f[C]journal\f[]
T}@T{
hledger\[aq]s journal format, also some Ledger journals
T}@T{
\f[C]\&.journal\f[] \f[C]\&.j\f[] \f[C]\&.hledger\f[] \f[C]\&.ledger\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]timeclock\f[]
T}@T{
timeclock files (precise time logging)
T}@T{
\f[C]\&.timeclock\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]timedot\f[]
T}@T{
timedot files (approximate time logging)
T}@T{
\f[C]\&.timedot\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]csv\f[]
T}@T{
comma\-separated values (data interchange)
T}@T{
\f[C]\&.csv\f[]
T}
.TE
.PP
If needed (eg to ensure correct error messages when a file has the
"wrong" extension), you can force a specific reader/format by prepending
it to the file path with a colon.
Examples:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ \-f\ csv:/some/csv\-file.dat\ stats
$\ echo\ \[aq]i\ 2009/13/1\ 08:00:00\[aq]\ |\ hledger\ print\ \-ftimeclock:\-
\f[]
.fi
.PP
You can also specify multiple \f[C]\-f\f[] options, to read multiple
files as one big journal.
There are some limitations with this:
.IP \[bu] 2
directives in one file will not affect the other files
.IP \[bu] 2
balance assertions will not see any account balances from previous files
.PP
If you need those, either use the include directive, or concatenate the
files, eg: \f[C]cat\ a.journal\ b.journal\ |\ hledger\ \-f\-\ CMD\f[].
.SS Smart dates
.PP
hledger\[aq]s user interfaces accept a flexible "smart date" syntax
(unlike dates in the journal file).
Smart dates allow some english words, can be relative to today\[aq]s
date, and can have less\-significant date parts omitted (defaulting to
1).
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
T{
\f[C]2009/1/1\f[], \f[C]2009/01/01\f[], \f[C]2009\-1\-1\f[],
\f[C]2009.1.1\f[]
T}@T{
simple dates, several separators allowed
T}
T{
\f[C]2009/1\f[], \f[C]2009\f[]
T}@T{
same as above \- a missing day or month defaults to 1
T}
T{
\f[C]1/1\f[], \f[C]january\f[], \f[C]jan\f[], \f[C]this\ year\f[]
T}@T{
relative dates, meaning january 1 of the current year
T}
T{
\f[C]next\ year\f[]
T}@T{
january 1 of next year
T}
T{
\f[C]this\ month\f[]
T}@T{
the 1st of the current month
T}
T{
\f[C]this\ week\f[]
T}@T{
the most recent monday
T}
T{
\f[C]last\ week\f[]
T}@T{
the monday of the week before this one
T}
T{
\f[C]lastweek\f[]
T}@T{
spaces are optional
T}
T{
\f[C]today\f[], \f[C]yesterday\f[], \f[C]tomorrow\f[]
T}@T{
T}
.TE
.SS Report start & end date
.PP
Most hledger reports show the full span of time represented by the
journal data, by default.
So, the effective report start and end dates will be the earliest and
latest transaction or posting dates found in the journal.
.PP
Often you will want to see a shorter time span, such as the current
month.
You can specify a start and/or end date using \f[C]\-b/\-\-begin\f[],
\f[C]\-e/\-\-end\f[], \f[C]\-p/\-\-period\f[] or a \f[C]date:\f[] query
(described below).
All of these accept the smart date syntax.
One important thing to be aware of when specifying end dates: as in
Ledger, end dates are exclusive, so you need to write the date
\f[I]after\f[] the last day you want to include.
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
T{
\f[C]\-b\ 2016/3/17\f[]
T}@T{
begin on St.
Patrick\[aq]s day 2016
T}
T{
\f[C]\-e\ 12/1\f[]
T}@T{
end at the start of december 1st of the current year (11/30 will be the
last date included)
T}
T{
\f[C]\-b\ thismonth\f[]
T}@T{
all transactions on or after the 1st of the current month
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ thismonth\f[]
T}@T{
all transactions in the current month
T}
T{
\f[C]date:2016/3/17\-\f[]
T}@T{
the above written as queries instead
T}
T{
\f[C]date:\-12/1\f[]
T}@T{
T}
T{
\f[C]date:thismonth\-\f[]
T}@T{
T}
T{
\f[C]date:thismonth\f[]
T}@T{
T}
.TE
.SS Report intervals
.PP
A report interval can be specified so that commands like register,
balance and activity will divide their reports into multiple subperiods.
The basic intervals can be selected with one of \f[C]\-D/\-\-daily\f[],
\f[C]\-W/\-\-weekly\f[], \f[C]\-M/\-\-monthly\f[],
\f[C]\-Q/\-\-quarterly\f[], or \f[C]\-Y/\-\-yearly\f[].
More complex intervals may be specified with a period expression.
Report intervals can not be specified with a query, currently.
.SS Period expressions
.PP
The \f[C]\-p/\-\-period\f[] option accepts period expressions, a
shorthand way of expressing a start date, end date, and/or report
interval all at once.
.PP
Here\[aq]s a basic period expression specifying the first quarter of
2009.
Note, hledger always treats start dates as inclusive and end dates as
exclusive:
.PP
\f[C]\-p\ "from\ 2009/1/1\ to\ 2009/4/1"\f[]
.PP
Keywords like "from" and "to" are optional, and so are the spaces, as
long as you don\[aq]t run two dates together.
"to" can also be written as "\-".
These are equivalent to the above:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l.
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "2009/1/1\ 2009/4/1"\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p2009/1/1to2009/4/1\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p2009/1/1\-2009/4/1\f[]
T}
.TE
.PP
Dates are smart dates, so if the current year is 2009, the above can
also be written as:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l.
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "1/1\ 4/1"\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "january\-apr"\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "this\ year\ to\ 4/1"\f[]
T}
.TE
.PP
If you specify only one date, the missing start or end date will be the
earliest or latest transaction in your journal:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "from\ 2009/1/1"\f[]
T}@T{
everything after january 1, 2009
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "from\ 2009/1"\f[]
T}@T{
the same
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "from\ 2009"\f[]
T}@T{
the same
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "to\ 2009"\f[]
T}@T{
everything before january 1, 2009
T}
.TE
.PP
A single date with no "from" or "to" defines both the start and end date
like so:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "2009"\f[]
T}@T{
the year 2009; equivalent to "2009/1/1 to 2010/1/1"
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "2009/1"\f[]
T}@T{
the month of jan; equivalent to "2009/1/1 to 2009/2/1"
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "2009/1/1"\f[]
T}@T{
just that day; equivalent to "2009/1/1 to 2009/1/2"
T}
.TE
.PP
The argument of \f[C]\-p\f[] can also begin with, or be, a report
interval expression.
The basic report intervals are \f[C]daily\f[], \f[C]weekly\f[],
\f[C]monthly\f[], \f[C]quarterly\f[], or \f[C]yearly\f[], which have the
same effect as the \f[C]\-D\f[],\f[C]\-W\f[],\f[C]\-M\f[],\f[C]\-Q\f[],
or \f[C]\-Y\f[] flags.
Between report interval and start/end dates (if any), the word
\f[C]in\f[] is optional.
Examples:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l.
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "weekly\ from\ 2009/1/1\ to\ 2009/4/1"\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "monthly\ in\ 2008"\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "quarterly"\f[]
T}
.TE
.PP
The following more complex report intervals are also supported:
\f[C]biweekly\f[], \f[C]bimonthly\f[],
\f[C]every\ N\ days|weeks|months|quarters|years\f[],
\f[C]every\ Nth\ day\ [of\ month]\f[],
\f[C]every\ Nth\ day\ of\ week\f[].
.PP
Examples:
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l.
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "bimonthly\ from\ 2008"\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "every\ 2\ weeks"\f[]
T}
T{
\f[C]\-p\ "every\ 5\ days\ from\ 1/3"\f[]
T}
.TE
.PP
Show historical balances at end of 15th each month (N is exclusive end
date):
.PP
\f[C]hledger\ balance\ \-H\ \-p\ "every\ 16th\ day"\f[]
.PP
Group postings from start of wednesday to end of next tuesday (N is
start date and exclusive end date):
.PP
\f[C]hledger\ register\ checking\ \-p\ "every\ 3rd\ day\ of\ week"\f[]
.SS Depth limiting
.PP
With the \f[C]\-\-depth\ N\f[] option, commands like account, balance
and register will show only the uppermost accounts in the account tree,
down to level N.
Use this when you want a summary with less detail.
.SS Pivoting
.PP
Normally hledger sums amounts, and organizes them in a hierarchy, based
on account name.
The \f[C]\-\-pivot\ TAGNAME\f[] option causes it to sum and organize
hierarchy based on some other field instead.
.PP
TAGNAME is the full, case\-insensitive name of a tag you have defined,
or one of the built\-in implicit tags (like \f[C]code\f[] or
\f[C]payee\f[]).
As with account names, when tag values have
\f[C]multiple:colon\-separated:parts\f[] hledger will build hierarchy,
displayed in tree\-mode reports, summarisable with a depth limit, and so
on.
.PP
\f[C]\-\-pivot\f[] is a general option affecting all reports; you can
think of hledger transforming the journal before any other processing,
replacing every posting\[aq]s account name with the value of the
specified tag on that posting, inheriting it from the transaction or
using a blank value if it\[aq]s not present.
.PP
An example:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
2016/02/16\ Member\ Fee\ Payment
\ \ \ \ assets:bank\ account\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 2\ EUR
\ \ \ \ income:member\ fees\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \-2\ EUR\ \ ;\ member:\ John\ Doe
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Normal balance report showing account names:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 2\ EUR\ \ assets:bank\ account
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \-2\ EUR\ \ income:member\ fees
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Pivoted balance report, using member: tag values instead:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-\-pivot\ member
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 2\ EUR
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \-2\ EUR\ \ John\ Doe
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
One way to show only amounts with a member: value (using a query,
described below):
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-\-pivot\ member\ tag:member=.
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \-2\ EUR\ \ John\ Doe
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \-2\ EUR
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Another way (the acct: query matches against the pivoted "account
name"):
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-\-pivot\ member\ acct:.
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \-2\ EUR\ \ John\ Doe
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \-2\ EUR
\f[]
.fi
.SS Cost
.PP
The \f[C]\-B/\-\-cost\f[] flag converts amounts to their cost at
transaction time, if they have a transaction price specified.
.SS Market value
.PP
The \f[C]\-V/\-\-value\f[] flag converts the reported amounts to their
market value on the report end date, using the most recent applicable
market prices, when known.
Specifically, when there is a market price (P directive) for the
amount\[aq]s commodity, dated on or before the report end date (see
hledger \-> Report start & end date), the amount will be converted to
the price\[aq]s commodity.
If multiple applicable prices are defined, the latest\-dated one is used
(and if dates are equal, the one last parsed).
.PP
For example:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
#\ one\ euro\ is\ worth\ this\ many\ dollars\ from\ nov\ 1
P\ 2016/11/01\ €\ $1.10

#\ purchase\ some\ euros\ on\ nov\ 3
2016/11/3
\ \ \ \ assets:euros\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ €100
\ \ \ \ assets:checking

#\ the\ euro\ is\ worth\ fewer\ dollars\ by\ dec\ 21
P\ 2016/12/21\ €\ $1.03
\f[]
.fi
.PP
How many euros do I have ?
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ \-f\ t.j\ bal\ euros
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ €100\ \ assets:euros
\f[]
.fi
.PP
What are they worth on nov 3 ?
(no report end date specified, defaults to the last date in the journal)
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ \-f\ t.j\ bal\ euros\ \-V
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $110.00\ \ assets:euros
\f[]
.fi
.PP
What are they worth on dec 21 ?
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ \-f\ t.j\ bal\ euros\ \-V\ \-e\ 2016/12/21
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $103.00\ \ assets:euros
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Currently, hledger\[aq]s \-V only uses market prices recorded with P
directives, not transaction prices (unlike Ledger).
.PP
Using \-B and \-V together is allowed.
.SS Regular expressions
.PP
hledger uses regular expressions in a number of places:
.IP \[bu] 2
query terms, on the command line and in the hledger\-web search form:
\f[C]REGEX\f[], \f[C]desc:REGEX\f[], \f[C]cur:REGEX\f[],
\f[C]tag:...=REGEX\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
CSV rules conditional blocks: \f[C]if\ REGEX\ ...\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
account alias directives and options:
\f[C]alias\ /REGEX/\ =\ REPLACEMENT\f[],
\f[C]\-\-alias\ /REGEX/=REPLACEMENT\f[]
.PP
hledger\[aq]s regular expressions come from the regex\-tdfa library.
In general they:
.IP \[bu] 2
are case insensitive
.IP \[bu] 2
are infix matching (do not need to match the entire thing being matched)
.IP \[bu] 2
are POSIX extended regular expressions
.IP \[bu] 2
also support GNU word boundaries (\\<, \\>, \\b, \\B)
.IP \[bu] 2
and parenthesised capturing groups and numeric backreferences in
replacement strings
.IP \[bu] 2
do not support mode modifiers like (?s)
.PP
Some things to note:
.IP \[bu] 2
In the \f[C]alias\f[] directive and \f[C]\-\-alias\f[] option, regular
expressions must be enclosed in forward slashes (\f[C]/REGEX/\f[]).
Elsewhere in hledger, these are not required.
.IP \[bu] 2
In queries, to match a regular expression metacharacter like \f[C]$\f[]
as a literal character, prepend a backslash.
Eg to search for amounts with the dollar sign in hledger\-web, write
\f[C]cur:\\$\f[].
.IP \[bu] 2
On the command line, some metacharacters like \f[C]$\f[] have a special
meaning to the shell and so must be escaped at least once more.
See Special characters.
.SH QUERIES
.PP
One of hledger\[aq]s strengths is being able to quickly report on
precise subsets of your data.
Most commands accept an optional query expression, written as arguments
after the command name, to filter the data by date, account name or
other criteria.
The syntax is similar to a web search: one or more space\-separated
search terms, quotes to enclose whitespace, optional prefixes to match
specific fields.
Multiple search terms are combined as follows:
.PP
All commands except print: show transactions/postings/accounts which
match (or negatively match)
.IP \[bu] 2
any of the description terms AND
.IP \[bu] 2
any of the account terms AND
.IP \[bu] 2
any of the status terms AND
.IP \[bu] 2
all the other terms.
.PP
The print command: show transactions which
.IP \[bu] 2
match any of the description terms AND
.IP \[bu] 2
have any postings matching any of the positive account terms AND
.IP \[bu] 2
have no postings matching any of the negative account terms AND
.IP \[bu] 2
match all the other terms.
.PP
The following kinds of search terms can be used:
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]REGEX\f[]\f[]
match account names by this regular expression
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]acct:REGEX\f[]\f[]
same as above
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]amt:N,\ amt:<N,\ amt:<=N,\ amt:>N,\ amt:>=N\f[]\f[]
match postings with a single\-commodity amount that is equal to, less
than, or greater than N.
(Multi\-commodity amounts are not tested, and will always match.) The
comparison has two modes: if N is preceded by a + or \- sign (or is 0),
the two signed numbers are compared.
Otherwise, the absolute magnitudes are compared, ignoring sign.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]code:REGEX\f[]\f[]
match by transaction code (eg check number)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]cur:REGEX\f[]\f[]
match postings or transactions including any amounts whose
currency/commodity symbol is fully matched by REGEX.
(For a partial match, use \f[C]\&.*REGEX.*\f[]).
Note, to match characters which are regex\-significant, like the dollar
sign (\f[C]$\f[]), you need to prepend \f[C]\\\f[].
And when using the command line you need to add one more level of
quoting to hide it from the shell, so eg do:
\f[C]hledger\ print\ cur:\[aq]\\$\[aq]\f[] or
\f[C]hledger\ print\ cur:\\\\$\f[].
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]desc:REGEX\f[]\f[]
match transaction descriptions
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]date:PERIODEXPR\f[]\f[]
match dates within the specified period.
PERIODEXPR is a period expression (with no report interval).
Examples: \f[C]date:2016\f[], \f[C]date:thismonth\f[],
\f[C]date:2000/2/1\-2/15\f[], \f[C]date:lastweek\-\f[].
If the \f[C]\-\-date2\f[] command line flag is present, this matches
secondary dates instead.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]date2:PERIODEXPR\f[]\f[]
match secondary dates within the specified period.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]depth:N\f[]\f[]
match (or display, depending on command) accounts at or above this depth
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]real:,\ real:0\f[]\f[]
match real or virtual postings respectively
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]status:,\ status:!,\ status:*\f[]\f[]
match unmarked, pending, or cleared transactions respectively
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]tag:REGEX[=REGEX]\f[]\f[]
match by tag name, and optionally also by tag value.
Note a tag: query is considered to match a transaction if it matches any
of the postings.
Also remember that postings inherit the tags of their parent
transaction.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]not:\f[]\f[]
before any of the above negates the match.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[B]\f[C]inacct:ACCTNAME\f[]\f[]
a special term used automatically when you click an account name in
hledger\-web, specifying the account register we are currently in
(selects the transactions of that account and how to show them, can be
filtered further with \f[C]acct\f[] etc).
Not supported elsewhere in hledger.
.RS
.RE
.PP
Some of these can also be expressed as command\-line options (eg
\f[C]depth:2\f[] is equivalent to \f[C]\-\-depth\ 2\f[]).
Generally you can mix options and query arguments, and the resulting
query will be their intersection (perhaps excluding the
\f[C]\-p/\-\-period\f[] option).
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
hledger provides a number of subcommands; \f[C]hledger\f[] with no
arguments shows a list.
.PP
If you install additional \f[C]hledger\-*\f[] packages, or if you put
programs or scripts named \f[C]hledger\-NAME\f[] in your PATH, these
will also be listed as subcommands.
.PP
Run a subcommand by writing its name as first argument (eg
\f[C]hledger\ incomestatement\f[]).
You can also write any unambiguous prefix of a command name
(\f[C]hledger\ inc\f[]), or one of the standard short aliases displayed
in the command list (\f[C]hledger\ is\f[]).
.SS accounts
.PP
Show account names.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-tree\f[]
show short account names, as a tree
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-flat\f[]
show full account names, as a list (default)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-drop=N\f[]
in flat mode: omit N leading account name parts
.RS
.RE
.PP
This command lists all account names that are in use (ie, all the
accounts which have at least one transaction posting to them).
With query arguments, only matched account names are shown.
.PP
It shows a flat list by default.
With \f[C]\-\-tree\f[], it uses indentation to show the account
hierarchy.
.PP
In flat mode you can add \f[C]\-\-drop\ N\f[] to omit the first few
account name components.
.PP
Examples:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ accounts\ \-\-tree
assets
\ \ bank
\ \ \ \ checking
\ \ \ \ saving
\ \ cash
expenses
\ \ food
\ \ supplies
income
\ \ gifts
\ \ salary
liabilities
\ \ debts
\f[]
.fi
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ accounts\ \-\-drop\ 1
bank:checking
bank:saving
cash
food
supplies
gifts
salary
debts
\f[]
.fi
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ accounts
assets:bank:checking
assets:bank:saving
assets:cash
expenses:food
expenses:supplies
income:gifts
income:salary
liabilities:debts
\f[]
.fi
.SS activity
.PP
Show an ascii barchart of posting counts per interval.
.PP
The activity command displays an ascii histogram showing transaction
counts by day, week, month or other reporting interval (by day is the
default).
With query arguments, it counts only matched transactions.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ activity\ \-\-quarterly
2008\-01\-01\ **
2008\-04\-01\ *******
2008\-07\-01\ 
2008\-10\-01\ **
\f[]
.fi
.SS add
.PP
Prompt for transactions and add them to the journal.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-no\-new\-accounts\f[]
don\[aq]t allow creating new accounts; helps prevent typos when entering
account names
.RS
.RE
.PP
Many hledger users edit their journals directly with a text editor, or
generate them from CSV.
For more interactive data entry, there is the \f[C]add\f[] command,
which prompts interactively on the console for new transactions, and
appends them to the journal file (if there are multiple
\f[C]\-f\ FILE\f[] options, the first file is used.) Existing
transactions are not changed.
This is the only hledger command that writes to the journal file.
.PP
To use it, just run \f[C]hledger\ add\f[] and follow the prompts.
You can add as many transactions as you like; when you are finished,
enter \f[C]\&.\f[] or press control\-d or control\-c to exit.
.PP
Features:
.IP \[bu] 2
add tries to provide useful defaults, using the most similar recent
transaction (by description) as a template.
.IP \[bu] 2
You can also set the initial defaults with command line arguments.
.IP \[bu] 2
Readline\-style edit keys can be used during data entry.
.IP \[bu] 2
The tab key will auto\-complete whenever possible \- accounts,
descriptions, dates (\f[C]yesterday\f[], \f[C]today\f[],
\f[C]tomorrow\f[]).
If the input area is empty, it will insert the default value.
.IP \[bu] 2
If the journal defines a default commodity, it will be added to any bare
numbers entered.
.IP \[bu] 2
A parenthesised transaction code may be entered following a date.
.IP \[bu] 2
Comments and tags may be entered following a description or amount.
.IP \[bu] 2
If you make a mistake, enter \f[C]<\f[] at any prompt to restart the
transaction.
.IP \[bu] 2
Input prompts are displayed in a different colour when the terminal
supports it.
.PP
Example (see the tutorial for a detailed explanation):
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ add
Adding\ transactions\ to\ journal\ file\ /src/hledger/examples/sample.journal
Any\ command\ line\ arguments\ will\ be\ used\ as\ defaults.
Use\ tab\ key\ to\ complete,\ readline\ keys\ to\ edit,\ enter\ to\ accept\ defaults.
An\ optional\ (CODE)\ may\ follow\ transaction\ dates.
An\ optional\ ;\ COMMENT\ may\ follow\ descriptions\ or\ amounts.
If\ you\ make\ a\ mistake,\ enter\ <\ at\ any\ prompt\ to\ restart\ the\ transaction.
To\ end\ a\ transaction,\ enter\ .\ when\ prompted.
To\ quit,\ enter\ .\ at\ a\ date\ prompt\ or\ press\ control\-d\ or\ control\-c.
Date\ [2015/05/22]:\ 
Description:\ supermarket
Account\ 1:\ expenses:food
Amount\ \ 1:\ $10
Account\ 2:\ assets:checking
Amount\ \ 2\ [$\-10.0]:\ 
Account\ 3\ (or\ .\ or\ enter\ to\ finish\ this\ transaction):\ .
2015/05/22\ supermarket
\ \ \ \ expenses:food\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $10
\ \ \ \ assets:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-10.0

Save\ this\ transaction\ to\ the\ journal\ ?\ [y]:\ 
Saved.
Starting\ the\ next\ transaction\ (.\ or\ ctrl\-D/ctrl\-C\ to\ quit)
Date\ [2015/05/22]:\ <CTRL\-D>\ $
\f[]
.fi
.SS balance
.PP
Show accounts and their balances.
Alias: bal.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-change\f[]
show balance change in each period (default)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]
show balance change accumulated across periods (in multicolumn reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-H\ \-\-historical\f[]
show historical ending balance in each period (includes postings before
report start date)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-tree\f[]
show accounts as a tree; amounts include subaccounts (default in simple
reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-flat\f[]
show accounts as a list; amounts exclude subaccounts except when account
is depth\-clipped (default in multicolumn reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-A\ \-\-average\f[]
show a row average column (in multicolumn mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-T\ \-\-row\-total\f[]
show a row total column (in multicolumn mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-N\ \-\-no\-total\f[]
don\[aq]t show the final total row
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-drop=N\f[]
omit N leading account name parts (in flat mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-no\-elide\f[]
don\[aq]t squash boring parent accounts (in tree mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-format=LINEFORMAT\f[]
in single\-column balance reports: use this custom line format
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-O\ FMT\ \-\-output\-format=FMT\f[]
select the output format.
Supported formats: txt, csv.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-o\ FILE\ \-\-output\-file=FILE\f[]
write output to FILE.
A file extension matching one of the above formats selects that format.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-pretty\-tables\f[]
Use unicode to display prettier tables.
.RS
.RE
.PP
The balance command displays accounts and balances.
It is hledger\[aq]s most featureful and versatile command.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ assets
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ bank:saving
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ \ \ cash
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2\ \ expenses
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ food
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ supplies
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ income
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ gifts
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ salary
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ liabilities:debts
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
More precisely, the balance command shows the \f[I]change\f[] to each
account\[aq]s balance caused by all (matched) postings.
In the common case where you do not filter by date and your journal sets
the correct opening balances, this is the same as the account\[aq]s
ending balance.
.PP
By default, accounts are displayed hierarchically, with subaccounts
indented below their parent.
"Boring" accounts, which contain a single interesting subaccount and no
balance of their own, are elided into the following line for more
compact output.
(Use \f[C]\-\-no\-elide\f[] to prevent this.
Eliding of boring accounts is not yet supported in multicolumn reports.)
.PP
Each account\[aq]s balance is the "inclusive" balance \- it includes the
balances of any subaccounts.
.PP
Accounts which have zero balance (and no non\-zero subaccounts) are
omitted.
Use \f[C]\-E/\-\-empty\f[] to show them.
.PP
A final total is displayed by default; use \f[C]\-N/\-\-no\-total\f[] to
suppress it:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-p\ 2008/6\ expenses\ \-\-no\-total
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2\ \ expenses
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ food
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ supplies
\f[]
.fi
.SS Flat mode
.PP
To see a flat list of full account names instead of the default
hierarchical display, use \f[C]\-\-flat\f[].
In this mode, accounts (unless depth\-clipped) show their "exclusive"
balance, excluding any subaccount balances.
In this mode, you can also use \f[C]\-\-drop\ N\f[] to omit the first
few account name components.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-p\ 2008/6\ expenses\ \-N\ \-\-flat\ \-\-drop\ 1
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ food
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ supplies
\f[]
.fi
.SS Depth limited balance reports
.PP
With \f[C]\-\-depth\ N\f[], balance shows accounts only to the specified
depth.
This is very useful to show a complex charts of accounts in less detail.
In flat mode, balances from accounts below the depth limit will be shown
as part of a parent account at the depth limit.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-N\ \-\-depth\ 1
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ assets
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2\ \ expenses
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ income
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ liabilities
\f[]
.fi
.SS Multicolumn balance reports
.PP
With a reporting interval, multiple balance columns will be shown, one
for each report period.
There are three types of multi\-column balance report, showing different
information:
.IP "1." 3
By default: each column shows the sum of postings in that period, ie the
account\[aq]s change of balance in that period.
This is useful eg for a monthly income statement:
.RS 4
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-\-quarterly\ income\ expenses\ \-E
Balance\ changes\ in\ 2008:

\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ 2008q1\ \ 2008q2\ \ 2008q3\ \ 2008q4\ 
===================++=================================
\ expenses:food\ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\ expenses:supplies\ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\ income:gifts\ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\ income:salary\ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-++\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.IP "2." 3
With \f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]: each column shows the ending balance for
that period, accumulating the changes across periods, starting from 0 at
the report start date:
.RS 4
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-\-quarterly\ income\ expenses\ \-E\ \-\-cumulative
Ending\ balances\ (cumulative)\ in\ 2008:

\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ 2008/03/31\ \ 2008/06/30\ \ 2008/09/30\ \ 2008/12/31\ 
===================++=================================================
\ expenses:food\ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ 
\ expenses:supplies\ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ 
\ income:gifts\ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ 
\ income:salary\ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ 
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-++\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.IP "3." 3
With \f[C]\-\-historical/\-H\f[]: each column shows the actual
historical ending balance for that period, accumulating the changes
across periods, starting from the actual balance at the report start
date.
This is useful eg for a multi\-period balance sheet, and when you are
showing only the data after a certain start date:
.RS 4
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ ^assets\ ^liabilities\ \-\-quarterly\ \-\-historical\ \-\-begin\ 2008/4/1
Ending\ balances\ (historical)\ in\ 2008/04/01\-2008/12/31:

\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ 2008/06/30\ \ 2008/09/30\ \ 2008/12/31\ 
======================++=====================================
\ assets:bank:checking\ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\ assets:bank:saving\ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ 
\ assets:cash\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ 
\ liabilities:debts\ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ 
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-++\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
Multi\-column balance reports display accounts in flat mode by default;
to see the hierarchy, use \f[C]\-\-tree\f[].
.PP
With a reporting interval (like \f[C]\-\-quarterly\f[] above), the
report start/end dates will be adjusted if necessary so that they
encompass the displayed report periods.
This is so that the first and last periods will be "full" and comparable
to the others.
.PP
The \f[C]\-E/\-\-empty\f[] flag does two things in multicolumn balance
reports: first, the report will show all columns within the specified
report period (without \-E, leading and trailing columns with all zeroes
are not shown).
Second, all accounts which existed at the report start date will be
considered, not just the ones with activity during the report period
(use \-E to include low\-activity accounts which would otherwise would
be omitted).
.PP
The \f[C]\-T/\-\-row\-total\f[] flag adds an additional column showing
the total for each row.
.PP
The \f[C]\-A/\-\-average\f[] flag adds a column showing the average
value in each row.
.PP
Here\[aq]s an example of all three:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-Q\ income\ expenses\ \-\-tree\ \-ETA
Balance\ changes\ in\ 2008:

\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ 2008q1\ \ 2008q2\ \ 2008q3\ \ 2008q4\ \ \ \ Total\ \ Average\ 
============++===================================================
\ expenses\ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ $2\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2\ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ 
\ \ \ food\ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\ \ \ supplies\ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\ income\ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ 
\ \ \ gifts\ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\ \ \ salary\ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-++\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ||\ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ 

#\ Average\ is\ rounded\ to\ the\ dollar\ here\ since\ all\ journal\ amounts\ are
\f[]
.fi
.SS Custom balance output
.PP
In simple (non\-multi\-column) balance reports, you can customise the
output with \f[C]\-\-format\ FMT\f[]:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-\-format\ "%20(account)\ %12(total)"
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ bank:saving\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ cash\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ expenses\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ food\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ supplies\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ income\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ gifts\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ salary\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
\ \ \ liabilities:debts\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The FMT format string (plus a newline) specifies the formatting applied
to each account/balance pair.
It may contain any suitable text, with data fields interpolated like so:
.PP
\f[C]%[MIN][.MAX](FIELDNAME)\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
MIN pads with spaces to at least this width (optional)
.IP \[bu] 2
MAX truncates at this width (optional)
.IP \[bu] 2
FIELDNAME must be enclosed in parentheses, and can be one of:
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]depth_spacer\f[] \- a number of spaces equal to the account\[aq]s
depth, or if MIN is specified, MIN * depth spaces.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]account\f[] \- the account\[aq]s name
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]total\f[] \- the account\[aq]s balance/posted total, right
justified
.RE
.PP
Also, FMT can begin with an optional prefix to control how
multi\-commodity amounts are rendered:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]%_\f[] \- render on multiple lines, bottom\-aligned (the default)
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]%^\f[] \- render on multiple lines, top\-aligned
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]%,\f[] \- render on one line, comma\-separated
.PP
There are some quirks.
Eg in one\-line mode, \f[C]%(depth_spacer)\f[] has no effect, instead
\f[C]%(account)\f[] has indentation built in.
 Experimentation may be needed to get pleasing results.
.PP
Some example formats:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]%(total)\f[] \- the account\[aq]s total
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]%\-20.20(account)\f[] \- the account\[aq]s name, left justified,
padded to 20 characters and clipped at 20 characters
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]%,%\-50(account)\ \ %25(total)\f[] \- account name padded to 50
characters, total padded to 20 characters, with multiple commodities
rendered on one line
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]%20(total)\ \ %2(depth_spacer)%\-(account)\f[] \- the default
format for the single\-column balance report
.SS Colour support
.PP
The balance command shows negative amounts in red, if:
.IP \[bu] 2
the \f[C]TERM\f[] environment variable is not set to \f[C]dumb\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
the output is not being redirected or piped anywhere
.SS Output destination
.PP
The balance, print, register and stats commands can write their output
to a destination other than the console.
This is controlled by the \f[C]\-o/\-\-output\-file\f[] option.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-o\ \-\ \ \ \ \ #\ write\ to\ stdout\ (the\ default)
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-o\ FILE\ \ #\ write\ to\ FILE
\f[]
.fi
.SS CSV output
.PP
The balance, print and register commands can write their output as CSV.
This is useful for exporting data to other applications, eg to make
charts in a spreadsheet.
This is controlled by the \f[C]\-O/\-\-output\-format\f[] option, or by
specifying a \f[C]\&.csv\f[] file extension with
\f[C]\-o/\-\-output\-file\f[].
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-O\ csv\ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ write\ CSV\ to\ stdout
$\ hledger\ balance\ \-o\ FILE.csv\ \ #\ write\ CSV\ to\ FILE.csv
\f[]
.fi
.SS balancesheet
.PP
Show a balance sheet.
Alias: bs.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-change\f[]
show balance change in each period, instead of historical ending
balances
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]
show balance change accumulated across periods (in multicolumn reports),
instead of historical ending balances
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-H\ \-\-historical\f[]
show historical ending balance in each period (includes postings before
report start date) (default)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-tree\f[]
show accounts as a tree; amounts include subaccounts (default in simple
reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-flat\f[]
show accounts as a list; amounts exclude subaccounts except when account
is depth\-clipped (default in multicolumn reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-A\ \-\-average\f[]
show a row average column (in multicolumn mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-T\ \-\-row\-total\f[]
show a row total column (in multicolumn mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-N\ \-\-no\-total\f[]
don\[aq]t show the final total row
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-drop=N\f[]
omit N leading account name parts (in flat mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-no\-elide\f[]
don\[aq]t squash boring parent accounts (in tree mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-format=LINEFORMAT\f[]
in single\-column balance reports: use this custom line format
.RS
.RE
.PP
This command displays a simple balance sheet.
It currently assumes that you have top\-level accounts named
\f[C]asset\f[] and \f[C]liability\f[] (plural forms also allowed.)
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balancesheet
Balance\ Sheet

Assets:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ assets
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ bank:saving
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ \ \ cash
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1

Liabilities:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ liabilities:debts
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1

Total:
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
With a reporting interval, multiple columns will be shown, one for each
report period.
As with multicolumn balance reports, you can alter the report mode with
\f[C]\-\-change\f[]/\f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]/\f[C]\-\-historical\f[].
Normally balancesheet shows historical ending balances, which is what
you need for a balance sheet; note this means it ignores report begin
dates.
.SS balancesheetequity
.PP
Show a balance sheet including equity.
Alias: bse.
.PP
Other than showing the equity accounts, this command is exactly the same
as the command balancesheet.
Please refer to it for the available options.
.PP
This command displays a balancesheet.
It currently assumes that you have top\-level accounts named
\f[C]asset\f[], \f[C]liability\f[] and \f[C]equity\f[] (plural forms
also allowed.)
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ balancesheetequity
Balance\ Sheet\ With\ Equity

Assets:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ assets
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ bank:saving
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-3\ \ \ \ cash
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2

Liabilities:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ liabilities:debts
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1

Equity:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ equity:owner
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1

Total:
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.SS cashflow
.PP
Show a cashflow statement.
Alias: cf.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-change\f[]
show balance change in each period (default)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]
show balance change accumulated across periods (in multicolumn reports),
instead of changes during periods
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-H\ \-\-historical\f[]
show historical ending balance in each period (includes postings before
report start date), instead of changes during each period
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-tree\f[]
show accounts as a tree; amounts include subaccounts (default in simple
reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-flat\f[]
show accounts as a list; amounts exclude subaccounts except when account
is depth\-clipped (default in multicolumn reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-A\ \-\-average\f[]
show a row average column (in multicolumn mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-T\ \-\-row\-total\f[]
show a row total column (in multicolumn mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-N\ \-\-no\-total\f[]
don\[aq]t show the final total row (in simple reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-drop=N\f[]
omit N leading account name parts (in flat mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-no\-elide\f[]
don\[aq]t squash boring parent accounts (in tree mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-format=LINEFORMAT\f[]
in single\-column balance reports: use this custom line format
.RS
.RE
.PP
This command displays a simple cashflow statement It shows the change in
all "cash" (ie, liquid assets) accounts for the period.
It currently assumes that cash accounts are under a top\-level account
named \f[C]asset\f[] and do not contain \f[C]receivable\f[],
\f[C]:A/R\f[] or \f[C]:fixed\f[].
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ cashflow
Cashflow\ Statement

Cash\ flows:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ assets
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ bank:saving
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ \ \ cash
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1

Total:
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
\f[]
.fi
.PP
With a reporting interval, multiple columns will be shown, one for each
report period.
Normally cashflow shows changes in assets per period, though as with
multicolumn balance reports you can alter the report mode with
\f[C]\-\-change\f[]/\f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]/\f[C]\-\-historical\f[].
.SS help
.PP
Show any of the hledger manuals.
.PP
The \f[C]help\f[] command displays any of the main hledger manuals, in
one of several ways.
Run it with no argument to list the manuals, or provide a full or
partial manual name to select one.
.PP
hledger manuals are available in several formats.
hledger help will use the first of these display methods that it finds:
info, man, $PAGER, less, stdout (or when non\-interactive, just stdout).
You can force a particular viewer with the \f[C]\-\-info\f[],
\f[C]\-\-man\f[], \f[C]\-\-pager\f[], \f[C]\-\-cat\f[] flags.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ help
Please\ choose\ a\ manual\ by\ typing\ "hledger\ help\ MANUAL"\ (a\ substring\ is\ ok).
Manuals:\ hledger\ hledger\-ui\ hledger\-web\ hledger\-api\ journal\ csv\ timeclock\ timedot
\f[]
.fi
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ help\ h\ \-\-man

hledger(1)\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ hledger\ User\ Manuals\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ hledger(1)

NAME
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ hledger\ \-\ a\ command\-line\ accounting\ tool

SYNOPSIS
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ hledger\ [\-f\ FILE]\ COMMAND\ [OPTIONS]\ [ARGS]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ hledger\ [\-f\ FILE]\ ADDONCMD\ \-\-\ [OPTIONS]\ [ARGS]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ hledger

DESCRIPTION
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ hledger\ \ is\ \ a\ \ cross\-platform\ \ program\ \ for\ tracking\ money,\ time,\ or\ any
\&...
\f[]
.fi
.SS incomestatement
.PP
Show an income statement.
Alias: is.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-change\f[]
show balance change in each period (default)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]
show balance change accumulated across periods (in multicolumn reports),
instead of changes during periods
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-H\ \-\-historical\f[]
show historical ending balance in each period (includes postings before
report start date), instead of changes during each period
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-tree\f[]
show accounts as a tree; amounts include subaccounts (default in simple
reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-flat\f[]
show accounts as a list; amounts exclude subaccounts except when account
is depth\-clipped (default in multicolumn reports)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-A\ \-\-average\f[]
show a row average column (in multicolumn mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-T\ \-\-row\-total\f[]
show a row total column (in multicolumn mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-N\ \-\-no\-total\f[]
don\[aq]t show the final total row
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-drop=N\f[]
omit N leading account name parts (in flat mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-no\-elide\f[]
don\[aq]t squash boring parent accounts (in tree mode)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-format=LINEFORMAT\f[]
in single\-column balance reports: use this custom line format
.RS
.RE
.PP
This command displays a simple income statement.
It currently assumes that you have top\-level accounts named
\f[C]income\f[] (or \f[C]revenue\f[]) and \f[C]expense\f[] (plural forms
also allowed.)
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ incomestatement
Income\ Statement

Revenues:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2\ \ income
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ gifts
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ salary
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2

Expenses:
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2\ \ expenses
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ food
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ supplies
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2

Total:
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
With a reporting interval, multiple columns will be shown, one for each
report period.
Normally incomestatement shows revenues/expenses per period, though as
with multicolumn balance reports you can alter the report mode with
\f[C]\-\-change\f[]/\f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]/\f[C]\-\-historical\f[].
.SS print
.PP
Show transactions from the journal.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-x\ \ \ \ \ \-\-explicit\f[]
show all amounts explicitly
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-m\ STR\ \-\-match=STR\f[]
show the transaction whose description is most similar to STR, and is
most recent
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-O\ FMT\ \-\-output\-format=FMT\f[]
select the output format.
Supported formats: txt, csv.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-o\ FILE\ \-\-output\-file=FILE\f[]
write output to FILE.
A file extension matching one of the above formats selects that format.
.RS
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ print
2008/01/01\ income
\ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ income:salary\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1

2008/06/01\ gift
\ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ income:gifts\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1

2008/06/02\ save
\ \ \ \ assets:bank:saving\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1

2008/06/03\ *\ eat\ &\ shop
\ \ \ \ expenses:food\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ expenses:supplies\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ assets:cash\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2

2008/12/31\ *\ pay\ off
\ \ \ \ liabilities:debts\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
\ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The print command displays full journal entries (transactions) from the
journal file, tidily formatted.
.PP
As of hledger 1.2, print\[aq]s output is always a valid hledger journal.
However it may not preserve all original content, eg it does not print
directives or inter\-transaction comments.
.PP
Normally, transactions\[aq] implicit/explicit amount style is preserved:
when an amount is omitted in the journal, it will be omitted in the
output.
You can use the \f[C]\-x/\-\-explicit\f[] flag to make all amounts
explicit, which can be useful for troubleshooting or for making your
journal more readable and robust against data entry errors.
Note, in this mode postings with a multi\-commodity amount (possible
with an implicit amount in a multi\-commodity transaction) will be split
into multiple single\-commodity postings, for valid journal output.
.PP
With \-B/\-\-cost, amounts with transaction prices are converted to cost
(using the transaction price).
.PP
The print command also supports output destination and CSV output.
Here\[aq]s an example of print\[aq]s CSV output:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ print\ \-Ocsv
"txnidx","date","date2","status","code","description","comment","account","amount","commodity","credit","debit","posting\-status","posting\-comment"
"1","2008/01/01","","","","income","","assets:bank:checking","1","$","","1","",""
"1","2008/01/01","","","","income","","income:salary","\-1","$","1","","",""
"2","2008/06/01","","","","gift","","assets:bank:checking","1","$","","1","",""
"2","2008/06/01","","","","gift","","income:gifts","\-1","$","1","","",""
"3","2008/06/02","","","","save","","assets:bank:saving","1","$","","1","",""
"3","2008/06/02","","","","save","","assets:bank:checking","\-1","$","1","","",""
"4","2008/06/03","","*","","eat\ &\ shop","","expenses:food","1","$","","1","",""
"4","2008/06/03","","*","","eat\ &\ shop","","expenses:supplies","1","$","","1","",""
"4","2008/06/03","","*","","eat\ &\ shop","","assets:cash","\-2","$","2","","",""
"5","2008/12/31","","*","","pay\ off","","liabilities:debts","1","$","","1","",""
"5","2008/12/31","","*","","pay\ off","","assets:bank:checking","\-1","$","1","","",""
\f[]
.fi
.IP \[bu] 2
There is one CSV record per posting, with the parent transaction\[aq]s
fields repeated.
.IP \[bu] 2
The "txnidx" (transaction index) field shows which postings belong to
the same transaction.
(This number might change if transactions are reordered within the file,
files are parsed/included in a different order, etc.)
.IP \[bu] 2
The amount is separated into "commodity" (the symbol) and "amount"
(numeric quantity) fields.
.IP \[bu] 2
The numeric amount is repeated in either the "credit" or "debit" column,
for convenience.
(Those names are not accurate in the accounting sense; it just puts
negative amounts under credit and zero or greater amounts under debit.)
.SS register
.PP
Show postings and their running total.
Alias: reg.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-\-cumulative\f[]
show running total from report start date (default)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-H\ \-\-historical\f[]
show historical running total/balance (includes postings before report
start date)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-A\ \-\-average\f[]
show running average of posting amounts instead of total (implies
\-\-empty)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-r\ \-\-related\f[]
show postings\[aq] siblings instead
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-w\ N\ \-\-width=N\f[]
set output width (default: terminal width or COLUMNS.
\-wN,M sets description width as well)
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-O\ FMT\ \-\-output\-format=FMT\f[]
select the output format.
Supported formats: txt, csv.
.RS
.RE
.TP
.B \f[C]\-o\ FILE\ \-\-output\-file=FILE\f[]
write output to FILE.
A file extension matching one of the above formats selects that format.
.RS
.RE
.PP
The register command displays postings, one per line, and their running
total.
This is typically used with a query selecting a particular account, to
see that account\[aq]s activity:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ register\ checking
2008/01/01\ income\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
2008/06/01\ gift\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2
2008/06/02\ save\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
2008/12/31\ pay\ off\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The \f[C]\-\-historical\f[]/\f[C]\-H\f[] flag adds the balance from any
undisplayed prior postings to the running total.
This is useful when you want to see only recent activity, with a
historically accurate running balance:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ register\ checking\ \-b\ 2008/6\ \-\-historical
2008/06/01\ gift\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $2
2008/06/02\ save\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
2008/12/31\ pay\ off\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets:bank:checking\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The \f[C]\-\-depth\f[] option limits the amount of sub\-account detail
displayed.
.PP
The \f[C]\-\-average\f[]/\f[C]\-A\f[] flag shows the running average
posting amount instead of the running total (so, the final number
displayed is the average for the whole report period).
This flag implies \f[C]\-\-empty\f[] (see below).
It is affected by \f[C]\-\-historical\f[].
It works best when showing just one account and one commodity.
.PP
The \f[C]\-\-related\f[]/\f[C]\-r\f[] flag shows the \f[I]other\f[]
postings in the transactions of the postings which would normally be
shown.
.PP
With a reporting interval, register shows summary postings, one per
interval, aggregating the postings to each account:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ register\ \-\-monthly\ income
2008/01\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ income:salary\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
2008/06\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ income:gifts\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Periods with no activity, and summary postings with a zero amount, are
not shown by default; use the \f[C]\-\-empty\f[]/\f[C]\-E\f[] flag to
see them:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ register\ \-\-monthly\ income\ \-E
2008/01\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ income:salary\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
2008/02\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
2008/03\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
2008/04\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
2008/05\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
2008/06\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ income:gifts\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
2008/07\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
2008/08\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
2008/09\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
2008/10\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
2008/11\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
2008/12\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-2
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Often, you\[aq]ll want to see just one line per interval.
The \f[C]\-\-depth\f[] option helps with this, causing subaccounts to be
aggregated:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ register\ \-\-monthly\ assets\ \-\-depth\ 1h
2008/01\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $1
2008/06\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ 0
2008/12\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ assets\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ $\-1
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Note when using report intervals, if you specify start/end dates these
will be adjusted outward if necessary to contain a whole number of
intervals.
This ensures that the first and last intervals are full length and
comparable to the others in the report.
.SS Custom register output
.PP
register uses the full terminal width by default, except on windows.
You can override this by setting the \f[C]COLUMNS\f[] environment
variable (not a bash shell variable) or by using the
\f[C]\-\-width\f[]/\f[C]\-w\f[] option.
.PP
The description and account columns normally share the space equally
(about half of (width \- 40) each).
You can adjust this by adding a description width as part of
\-\-width\[aq]s argument, comma\-separated: \f[C]\-\-width\ W,D\f[] .
Here\[aq]s a diagram:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
<\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\ width\ (W)\ \-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\->
date\ (10)\ \ description\ (D)\ \ \ \ \ \ \ account\ (W\-41\-D)\ \ \ \ \ amount\ (12)\ \ \ balance\ (12)
DDDDDDDDDD\ dddddddddddddddddddd\ \ aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa\ \ AAAAAAAAAAAA\ \ AAAAAAAAAAAA
\f[]
.fi
.PP
and some examples:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ reg\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ use\ terminal\ width\ (or\ 80\ on\ windows)
$\ hledger\ reg\ \-w\ 100\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ use\ width\ 100
$\ COLUMNS=100\ hledger\ reg\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ set\ with\ one\-time\ environment\ variable
$\ export\ COLUMNS=100;\ hledger\ reg\ #\ set\ till\ session\ end\ (or\ window\ resize)
$\ hledger\ reg\ \-w\ 100,40\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ set\ overall\ width\ 100,\ description\ width\ 40
$\ hledger\ reg\ \-w\ $COLUMNS,40\ \ \ \ \ \ #\ use\ terminal\ width,\ and\ set\ description\ width
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The register command also supports the \f[C]\-o/\-\-output\-file\f[] and
\f[C]\-O/\-\-output\-format\f[] options for controlling output
destination and CSV output.
.SS stats
.PP
Show some journal statistics.
.TP
.B \f[C]\-o\ FILE\ \-\-output\-file=FILE\f[]
write output to FILE.
A file extension matching one of the above formats selects that format.
.RS
.RE
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ stats
Main\ journal\ file\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ :\ /src/hledger/examples/sample.journal
Included\ journal\ files\ \ \ :\ 
Transactions\ span\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ :\ 2008\-01\-01\ to\ 2009\-01\-01\ (366\ days)
Last\ transaction\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ :\ 2008\-12\-31\ (2333\ days\ ago)
Transactions\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ :\ 5\ (0.0\ per\ day)
Transactions\ last\ 30\ days:\ 0\ (0.0\ per\ day)
Transactions\ last\ 7\ days\ :\ 0\ (0.0\ per\ day)
Payees/descriptions\ \ \ \ \ \ :\ 5
Accounts\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ :\ 8\ (depth\ 3)
Commodities\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ :\ 1\ ($)
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The stats command displays summary information for the whole journal, or
a matched part of it.
With a reporting interval, it shows a report for each report period.
.PP
The stats command also supports \f[C]\-o/\-\-output\-file\f[] for
controlling output destination.
.SS test
.PP
Run built\-in unit tests.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ hledger\ test
Cases:\ 74\ \ Tried:\ 74\ \ Errors:\ 0\ \ Failures:\ 0
\f[]
.fi
.PP
This command runs hledger\[aq]s built\-in unit tests and displays a
quick report.
With a regular expression argument, it selects only tests with matching
names.
It\[aq]s mainly used in development, but it\[aq]s also nice to be able
to check your hledger executable for smoke at any time.
.SH ADD\-ON COMMANDS
.PP
hledger also searches for external add\-on commands, and will include
these in the commands list.
These are programs or scripts in your PATH whose name starts with
\f[C]hledger\-\f[] and ends with a recognised file extension (currently:
no extension, \f[C]bat\f[],\f[C]com\f[],\f[C]exe\f[],
\f[C]hs\f[],\f[C]lhs\f[],\f[C]pl\f[],\f[C]py\f[],\f[C]rb\f[],\f[C]rkt\f[],\f[C]sh\f[]).
.PP
Add\-ons can be invoked like any hledger command, but there are a few
things to be aware of.
Eg if the \f[C]hledger\-web\f[] add\-on is installed,
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]hledger\ \-h\ web\f[] shows hledger\[aq]s help, while
\f[C]hledger\ web\ \-h\f[] shows hledger\-web\[aq]s help.
.IP \[bu] 2
Flags specific to the add\-on must have a preceding \f[C]\-\-\f[] to
hide them from hledger.
So \f[C]hledger\ web\ \-\-serve\ \-\-port\ 9000\f[] will be rejected;
you must use \f[C]hledger\ web\ \-\-\ \-\-serve\ \-\-port\ 9000\f[].
.IP \[bu] 2
You can always run add\-ons directly if preferred:
\f[C]hledger\-web\ \-\-serve\ \-\-port\ 9000\f[].
.PP
Add\-ons are a relatively easy way to add local features or experiment
with new ideas.
They can be written in any language, but haskell scripts have a big
advantage: they can use the same hledger (and haskell) library functions
that built\-in commands do, for command\-line options, journal parsing,
reporting, etc.
.PP
Here are some hledger add\-ons available:
.SS Official add\-ons
.PP
These are maintained and released along with hledger.
.SS api
.PP
hledger\-api serves hledger data as a JSON web API.
.SS ui
.PP
hledger\-ui provides an efficient curses\-style interface.
.SS web
.PP
hledger\-web provides a simple web interface.
.SS Third party add\-ons
.PP
These are maintained separately, and usually updated shortly after a
hledger release.
.SS diff
.PP
hledger\-diff shows differences in an account\[aq]s transactions between
one journal file and another.
.SS iadd
.PP
hledger\-iadd is a curses\-style, more interactive replacement for the
add command.
.SS interest
.PP
hledger\-interest generates interest transactions for an account
according to various schemes.
.SS irr
.PP
hledger\-irr calculates the internal rate of return of an investment
account.
.SS Experimental add\-ons
.PP
These are available in source form in the hledger repo\[aq]s bin/
directory; installing them is pretty easy.
They may be less mature and documented than built\-in commands.
Reading and tweaking these is a good way to start making your own!
.SS autosync
.PP
hledger\-autosync is a symbolic link for easily running
ledger\-autosync, if installed.
ledger\-autosync does deduplicating conversion of OFX data and some CSV
formats, and can also download the data if your bank offers OFX Direct
Connect.
.SS budget
.PP
hledger\-budget.hs adds more budget\-tracking features to hledger.
.SS chart
.PP
hledger\-chart.hs is an old pie chart generator, in need of some love.
.SS check
.PP
hledger\-check.hs checks more powerful account balance assertions.
.SS check\-dates
.PP
hledger\-check\-dates.hs checks that journal entries are ordered by
date.
.SS check\-dupes
.PP
hledger\-check\-dupes.hs checks for account names sharing the same leaf
name.
.SS equity
.PP
hledger\-equity.hs prints balance\-resetting transactions, useful for
bringing account balances across file boundaries.
.SS prices
.PP
hledger\-prices.hs prints all prices from the journal.
.SS print\-unique
.PP
hledger\-print\-unique.hs prints transactions which do not reuse an
already\-seen description.
.SS register\-match
.PP
hledger\-register\-match.hs helps ledger\-autosync detect already\-seen
transactions when importing.
.SS rewrite
.PP
hledger\-rewrite.hs Adds one or more custom postings to matched
transactions.
.SS tags
.PP
hledger\-tags.hs Lists tag names in use.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\f[B]COLUMNS\f[] The screen width used by the register command.
Default: the full terminal width.
.PP
\f[B]LEDGER_FILE\f[] The journal file path when not specified with
\f[C]\-f\f[].
Default: \f[C]~/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows, perhaps
\f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
.SH FILES
.PP
Reads data from one or more files in hledger journal, timeclock,
timedot, or CSV format specified with \f[C]\-f\f[], or
\f[C]$LEDGER_FILE\f[], or \f[C]$HOME/.hledger.journal\f[] (on windows,
perhaps \f[C]C:/Users/USER/.hledger.journal\f[]).
.SH BUGS
.PP
The need to precede addon command options with \f[C]\-\-\f[] when
invoked from hledger is awkward.
.PP
When input data contains non\-ascii characters, a suitable system locale
must be configured (or there will be an unhelpful error).
Eg on POSIX, set LANG to something other than C.
.PP
In a Microsoft Windows CMD window, non\-ascii characters and colours are
not supported.
.PP
In a Cygwin/MSYS/Mintty window, the tab key is not supported in hledger
add.
.PP
Not all of Ledger\[aq]s journal file syntax is supported.
See file format differences.
.PP
On large data files, hledger is slower and uses more memory than Ledger.
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
.PP
Here are some issues you might encounter when you run hledger (and
remember you can also seek help from the IRC channel, mail list or bug
tracker):
.PP
\f[B]Successfully installed, but "No command \[aq]hledger\[aq]
found"\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
stack and cabal install binaries into a special directory, which should
be added to your PATH environment variable.
Eg on unix\-like systems, that is ~/.local/bin and ~/.cabal/bin
respectively.
.PP
\f[B]I set a custom LEDGER_FILE, but hledger is still using the default
file\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[C]LEDGER_FILE\f[] should be a real environment variable, not just a
shell variable.
The command \f[C]env\ |\ grep\ LEDGER_FILE\f[] should show it.
You may need to use \f[C]export\f[].
Here\[aq]s an explanation.
.PP
\f[B]"Illegal byte sequence" or "Invalid or incomplete multibyte or wide
character" errors\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
In order to handle non\-ascii letters and symbols (like £), hledger
needs an appropriate locale.
This is usually configured system\-wide; you can also configure it
temporarily.
The locale may need to be one that supports UTF\-8, if you built hledger
with GHC < 7.2 (or possibly always, I\[aq]m not sure yet).
.PP
Here\[aq]s an example of setting the locale temporarily, on ubuntu
gnu/linux:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ file\ my.journal
my.journal:\ UTF\-8\ Unicode\ text\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ <\-\ the\ file\ is\ UTF8\-encoded
$\ locale\ \-a
C
en_US.utf8\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ #\ <\-\ a\ UTF8\-aware\ locale\ is\ available
POSIX
$\ LANG=en_US.utf8\ hledger\ \-f\ my.journal\ print\ \ \ #\ <\-\ use\ it\ for\ this\ command
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Here\[aq]s one way to set it permanently, there are probably better
ways:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ echo\ "export\ LANG=en_US.UTF\-8"\ >>~/.bash_profile
$\ bash\ \-\-login
\f[]
.fi
.PP
If we preferred to use eg \f[C]fr_FR.utf8\f[], we might have to install
that first:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ apt\-get\ install\ language\-pack\-fr
$\ locale\ \-a
C
en_US.utf8
fr_BE.utf8
fr_CA.utf8
fr_CH.utf8
fr_FR.utf8
fr_LU.utf8
POSIX
$\ LANG=fr_FR.utf8\ hledger\ \-f\ my.journal\ print
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Note some platforms allow variant locale spellings, but not all (ubuntu
accepts \f[C]fr_FR.UTF8\f[], mac osx requires exactly
\f[C]fr_FR.UTF\-8\f[]).


.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at http://bugs.hledger.org
(or on the #hledger IRC channel or hledger mail list)

.SH AUTHORS
Simon Michael <simon@joyful.com> and contributors

.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Simon Michael.
.br
Released under GNU GPL v3 or later.

.SH SEE ALSO
hledger(1), hledger\-ui(1), hledger\-web(1), hledger\-api(1),
hledger_csv(5), hledger_journal(5), hledger_timeclock(5), hledger_timedot(5),
ledger(1)

http://hledger.org
